For most product, the goal of analytics is to increase retention and engagement. 
When you think about how to improve retention or engagement, 
f course you need to first define metrics for retention and engagement.

1. As for engagement, it basically means how often/how much/how deep users engage in this product? 
   Depending on the many features of the product, engage could mean many different kind of interaction. 
   It could be login, search, download, watch a video, and so on.
   Thus when you propose metrics to measure engagement, you can try to ask questions about user behavior.
   
   Take Netflix for example, you want to know:
   How often (*frequency*) do users do certain activity?
   How much (*time*) do users do certain activity within a certain period of time (e.g., a month)?
   How many (*DAU/MAU*) users do certain activity within a certain period of time?
   The certain activity here could be downloading a movie, watch a show, or search, add to watch-list, and so on.
   
2. Retention generally means how many of users who did a certain activity in last round of time also did the same activity in this round of time?
   Of course, the certain activity here can mean many different types of interactions with the product.
   
3. Once you define the key metrics you want to use in your analysis, you need to then get the data to find the value of each of these metrics.


4. Then you start your analysis. The point of your analysis is to discover insights. Thus you have to be clear about your goal. 
   As mentioned before, for most cases, the goal is to increase engagement and retention, since in most cases, the improvement on
   engagement and retention will lead to an increase in revenue.

The following provides several frameworks to guide such analyses.

5. Framework I: Segment customers based on their behaviors.
(1) First, you find the descriptive differences between successful users and unsuccessful users:
    e.g. What are the differences between users who tried for a month and cancelled the membership and the users who continue
         their membership after the first month trial?
    A. The difference in # of shows added to the watch-list within the first week of sign-up.
    B. The difference in # of shows downloaded within the first week of sign-up.
    C. The difference in total time watched on Netflix in the first month trial.
    
 (2) Let's say you found three important differences in the above metrics. 
      # of shows added to the watch-list within the first week of sign-up for retained users are 6
      # of shows added to the watch-list within the first week of sign-up for retained users are 4
      
      Now you can use this metric to define a behavior cohort.Basically, you segment all users to be either
      users who have added at least 6 to the watch-list and users who have added less then 6 shows to the watch-list
      Then you compare the retention rate between the two groups of users.
      Then you can calculate how much the likelihood of retention will increase if you can push users to add at least 6 shows to the watch-list.
      Of course, the relationship here is purely correlational. But it serves a great basis for future causal estimation.
      
      In fact, if your data suggests that if you can get users to add at least 6 shows to their watch-list within the first week,
      the likelihood retention will increase 150%. You can basically say, adding 6 shows to watch-list is the magical threshold!!!
      
      With this magical threshold discovered, you can now work on how to optimize that magical threshold, or how to make uses to add
      at least 6 shows to their to-watch-list within the first week of sign-up. 
      
      
 6. Framework II: Capture real usage on core functionality
 Because engagement can mean many different types of interaction, you cannot watch the overall engagement, instead, you want users 
 come back for the core functionality. For example, if 8% of users come back to the app every day but only 2% of users come back to 
 watch videos, you need to think what are the other activities users do when they come back. Is it downloading? Is it searching?
 You want to understand clearly what exactly is the core feature that brings users back to the app. To find out this, one thing you 
 measure is the percentage of time that users spend on a certain activity among the total time users spend on the app. 
 Or you can also measure the # of sessions including a certain activity/ # of total sessions to get an idea on how frequent users 
 perform certain activity on the app.
 Once you identified that core feature, you can check the retention curve on that core feature. Hopefully, the retention curve does not decrease that much
 from day 0 to day 30. Otherwise, it means you app is not able to achieve product-market fit.
 
 7.Framework III: How to change customers' behavior towards the way you want?
   Behavior = Motivation * Ability * Trigger
   Motivate users for that behavior.
   Make it easy for users to complete that behavior.
  
  
 8. Framework IV: Questioning the prevailing assumptions of mobile device
    Living in SC, people take the high-end mobile devices and WI-FI and 4G for granted, but once considering market in other places,
    many of popular assumptions need to be questioned!
    A. Do they have WIFI or 4G?
    B. Do they share devices, accounts?
    C. Do they use IOS, Android, or other lower-end devices?
    D. Do they have a culture of spending on video watching?
    E. Do they well-versed in internet product to use the product effectively?
    F. Do they understand every language, every phrase, and every icon on the app?
    
    
    
 

  
  

 
   
   
